Isolated environments guide (#3385)
astronomer/docs: learn/airflow-isolated-environments.md

You can pass information into and out of the `@task.external_python` decorated task the same way as you would when interacting with a `@task` decorated task, see also [Introduction to the TaskFlow API and Airflow decorators](airflow-decorators.md).

<CodeBlock language="python">{external_python_decorator_dag}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="traditional-xcom">

You can pass information into the ExternalPythonOperator by using a [Jinja template](templating.md) retrieving [XCom](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md) values from the [Airflow context](airflow-context.md). To pass information out of the ExternalPythonOperator, return it from the `python_callable`.
Note that Jinja templates will be rendered as strings unless you set `render_template_as_native_obj=True` in the DAG definition.

<CodeBlock language="python">{external_python_operator_dag}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

To get a list of all parameters of the `@task.external_python` decorator /  ExternalPythonOperator, see the [Astronomer Registry](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow/versions/latest/modules/ExternalPythonOperator).

## `@task.virtualenv` decorator / PythonVirtualenvOperator

> To use the `@task.virtualenv` decorator or the PythonVirtualenvOperator to create a virtual environment with the same Python version as your Airflow environment but potentially conflicting packages, you do not need to create a Python binary up front. The decorator/operator will create a virtual environment for you at runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Virtualenv operator (`@task.virtualenv` or PythonVirtualenvOperator) creates a new virtual environment each time the task runs.
```

:::warning

Installing Airflow itself and Airflow provider packages in isolated environments can lead to unexpected behavior and is generally not recommended. See, [Use Airflow packages in isolated environments](#use-airflow-packages-in-isolated-environments).

:::

> 

Reviewer: If you are only specifying different package versions, you do not need to create or specify a Python binary.

Reviewer: lol clearly missed the "text suggestion" on this one - sounds like just a very assertive comment 😁

my_isolated_task = PythonVirtualenvOperator(
    task_id="my_isolated_task",
    python_callable=my_isolated_function,
    requirements=[
        "pandas==1.5.1",
    ]  # add your requirements to the list
)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="taskflow-xcom">

You can pass information into and out of the `@task.virtualenv` decorated task the same way as you would when interacting with a `@task` decorated task, see also [Introduction to the TaskFlow API and Airflow decorators](airflow-decorators.md).

<CodeBlock language="python">{virtualenv_decorator_dag}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="traditional-xcom">

You can pass information into the PythonVirtualenvOperator by using a [Jinja template](templating.md) retrieving [XCom](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md) values from the [Airflow context](airflow-context.md). To pass information out of the PythonVirtualenvOperator, return it from the `python_callable`.
Note that Jinja templates will be rendered as strings unless you set `render_template_as_native_obj=True` in the DAG definition.

<CodeBlock language="python">{python_virtualenv_operator_dag}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

> If you want to build a virtual environment at runtime with a different Python version than your Airflow environment, you can use the [Astronomer PYENV BuildKit](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-provider-venv) to install a different Python version for your operator/decorator to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your task requires a different Python version than your Airflow environment, need to install that Python version in your Airflow environment so the Virtualenv task can use it. You can use the [Astronomer PYENV BuildKit](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-provider-venv) to install a different Python version in your Dockerfile.
```

    import random
    print(f"The pandas version in the virtual env is: {pd.__version__}")

    num = random.randint(0, 100)

    if num > 50:
        # return the task_id of the downstream task that should be executed
        return "downstream_task_a"
    else:
        return "downstream_task_b"
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="traditional-venv">

```python
# from airflow.operators.python import BranchPythonVirtualenvOperator

def my_isolated_function():
    import pandas as pd
    import random
    print(f"The pandas version in the virtual env is: {pd.__version__}")

    num = random.randint(0, 100)

    if num > 50:
        # return the task_id of the downstream task that should be executed
        return "downstream_task_a"  
    else:
        return "downstream_task_b"

my_isolated_task = BranchPythonVirtualenvOperator(
    task_id="my_isolated_task",
    python_callable=my_isolated_function,
    requirements=["pandas==1.5.1"],
)
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Use Airflow context variables in isolated environments

Some variables from the [Airflow context](airflow-context.md) can be passed to isolated environments, for example the `logical_date` of the DAG run.

> Due to compatibility issues, other objects from the context such as `ti` cannot be passed to isolated environments, see the [Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/latest/howto/operator/python.html#id1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to compatibility issues, other objects from the context such as `ti` cannot be passed to isolated environments. For more, see the [Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/latest/howto/operator/python.html#id1).
```

<TabItem value="traditional-venv">

```python
# from airflow.operators.python import PythonVirtualenvOperator

def my_isolated_function(password_from_op_kwargs):
    print(f"The password is: {password_from_op_kwargs}")

my_isolated_task = PythonVirtualenvOperator(
    task_id="my_isolated_task",
    python_callable=my_isolated_function,
    requirements=["pandas==1.5.1"],
    python_version="3.10",
    op_kwargs={
        "password_from_op_kwargs": "{{ var.value.my_secret }}",
    },
)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="traditional-epo">

```python
# from airflow.operators.python import ExternalPythonOperator
# import os

def my_isolated_function(password_from_op_kwargs):
    print(f"The password is: {password_from_op_kwargs}")

my_isolated_task = ExternalPythonOperator(
    task_id="my_isolated_task",
    python_callable=my_isolated_function,
    python=os.environ["ASTRO_PYENV_epo_pyenv"],
    op_kwargs={
        "password_from_op_kwargs": "{{ var.value.my_secret }}",
    },
)
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Use Airflow packages in isolated environments

:::warning

Using Airflow packages inside of isolated environments can lead to unexpected behavior and is not recommended. 

:::

> If you need to use Airflow and Airflow providers module inside your virtual environment, use the `@task.virtualenv` decorator or the PythonVirtualenvOperator instead of the `@task.external_python` decorator or the ExternalPythonOperator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to use Airflow or an Airflow providers module inside your virtual environment, use the `@task.virtualenv` decorator or the PythonVirtualenvOperator instead of the `@task.external_python` decorator or the ExternalPythonOperator.
```

- You do not have access to your [secrets backend](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/secrets/secrets-backend/index.html) from within the isolated environment. To access your secrets consider passing them in through [Jinja templating](templating.md). See, [Use Airflow variables in isolated environments](#use-airflow-variables-in-isolated-environments).
- Installing Airflow itself or Airflow provider packages in the environment provided to the `@task.external_python` decorator or the ExternalPythonOperator can lead to unexpected behavior. If you need to use Airflow or Airflow providers module inside your virtual environment, Astronomer recommends using the `@task.virtualenv` decorator or the PythonVirtualenvOperator instead. See, [Use Airflow packages in isolated environments](#use-airflow-packages-in-isolated-environments).

## Choosing an isolated environment option

Airflow provides several options for running tasks in isolated environments.

> ![Graph of options for isolated environments in Airflow.](/img/guides/airflow-isolated-environments_isolated_env_options_graph.png)

Reviewer: Put the graph after the bulleted list?

To run tasks in a dedicated Kubernetes Pod you can use:

- [IsolatedOperator](https://github.com/astronomer/apache-airflow-providers-isolation) (IO)
- [`@task.kubernetes`](#kubernetes-pod-operator) decorator 
- [KubernetesPodOperator](#kubernetes-pod-operator) (KPO)

To run tasks in a Python virtual environment you can use:

- [`@task.external_python`](#external-python-operator) decorator / ExternalPythonOperator (EPO)
- [`@task.virtualenv`](#virtualenv-operator) decorator / PythonVirtualenvOperator (PVO)
- [`@task.branch_external_python`](#virtual-branching-operators) decorator / BranchExternalPythonOperator (BEPO)
- [`@task.branch_virtualenv`](#virtual-branching-operators) decorator / BranchPythonVirtualenvOperator (BPVO)

> The virtual environment decorators have operator equivalents with the same functionality. Astronomer recommends to use the decorators over the operators, as they simplify handling of [XCom](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The virtual environment decorators have operator equivalents with the same functionality. Astronomer recommends using decorators where possible because they simplify handling of [XCom](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md).
```

> Which option you choose depends on your use case and the requirements of your task. The table below provides an overview of the different options and their use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Which option you choose depends on your use case and the requirements of your task. The table below shows which operators are best for which use cases.
```

| Use Case | [IO](https://github.com/astronomer/apache-airflow-providers-isolation) | [`@task.kubernetes`](#kubernetes-pod-operator) | [KPO](#kubernetes-pod-operator) | [EPO](#external-python-operator) | [PVO](#virtualenv-operator) | [BEPO](#virtual-branching-operators) | [BPVO](#virtual-branching-operators) |
|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|
| Run a traditional operator in a K8s Pod | :white_check_mark: | | | | | | |
| Run a Python task in a K8s Pod | | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | | | | |
| Run a Docker image without additional Python code in a K8s Pod | | | :white_check_mark: | | | | |
| Run a Python task in an existing virtual environment | | | | :white_check_mark: | | | |
| Run a Python task in a new virtual environment | | | | | :white_check_mark: | | |
| Run branching code in an existing virtual environment | | | | | | :white_check_mark: | |
| Run branching code in a new virtual environment | | | | | | | :white_check_mark: |

> Using a pre-existing virtual environment is faster and recommended if you need to reuse your virtual environment across multiple tasks. Creating a new virtual environment at runtime is slower but can be useful if you need to install different packages for each run of your task. The new environment can be cached by providing a `venv_cache_path`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a pre-existing virtual environment is faster and recommended if your virtual environment can be used by multiple tasks. Creating a new virtual environment at runtime is slower but can be useful if you need to install different packages for each run of your task. The new environment can be cached by providing a `venv_cache_path`.
```

Reviewer: Actually, could we just add a line to the table "reuse the same virtual env for multiple tasks" and then remove this paragraph? And "Install different packages for each run of your task", etc. Some of the other details could be saved for the individual sections.

> The IsolatedOperator, `@task.kubernetes` decorator or KubernetesPodOperator all you to have full control over the environment and resources used but they require you need to have access to a Kubernetes cluster. Running a task in a Python virtual environment is easier to set up since it does not require a Kubernetes cluster, but does not provide the same level of control over the environment and resources used and depending on your use case you might need to create a Python binary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another consideration when choosing an operator is the infrastructure you have available. Operators that run tasks in Kubernetes pods allow you to have full control over the environment and resources used, but they require a Kubernetes cluster. Operators that run tasks in Python virtual environments are easier to set up, but do not provide the same level of control over the environment and resources used.
```

| Requirements | [IO](https://github.com/astronomer/apache-airflow-providers-isolation) | [`@task.kubernetes`](#kubernetes-pod-operator) | [KPO](#kubernetes-pod-operator) | [EPO](#external-python-operator) | [PVO](#virtualenv-operator) | [BEPO](#virtual-branching-operators) | [BPVO](#virtual-branching-operators) |
|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|
| A Kubernetes cluster | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark:  |  :white_check_mark: | | | | |
| A Docker image (with or without Python installed) | :white_check_mark: | | :white_check_mark: | | | | |
| A Docker image (with Python installed) | | :white_check_mark: | | | | | |
| A Python binary | | | | :white_check_mark: | (:white_check_mark:)*  | :white_check_mark: | (:white_check_mark:)*  |

> *Only if you need to use a different Python version than your Airflow environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Only required if you need to use a different Python version than your Airflow environment.
```

> Astronomer recommends to use the [Astronomer PYENV BuildKit](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-provider-venv) to create a Python binary. See, [`@task.external_python`](#external-python-operator).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

To run tasks in a dedicated Kubernetes Pod you can use:

- [`@task.kubernetes`](#kubernetes-pod-operator) decorator 
- [KubernetesPodOperator](#kubernetes-pod-operator) (KPO)

To run tasks in a Python virtual environment you can use:

- [`@task.external_python`](#external-python-operator) decorator / ExternalPythonOperator (EPO)
- [`@task.virtualenv`](#virtualenv-operator) decorator / PythonVirtualenvOperator (PVO)
- [`@task.branch_external_python`](#virtual-branching-operators) decorator / BranchExternalPythonOperator (BEPO)
- [`@task.branch_virtualenv`](#virtual-branching-operators) decorator / BranchPythonVirtualenvOperator (BPVO)

The virtual environment decorators have operator equivalents with the same functionality. Astronomer recommends using decorators where possible because they simplify the handling of [XCom](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md).

![Graph of options for isolated environments in Airflow.](/img/guides/airflow-isolated-environments_isolated_env_options_graph.png)

Which option you choose depends on your use case and the requirements of your task. The table below shows which operators are best for particular use cases.

> | Use Case | Implementation Options |

Reviewer 2: This looks great!

Author: Thank you! 😊

---
title: "Run tasks in an isolated environment in Apache Airflow"
sidebar_label: "Isolated Environments"
description: "Learn how to run an Airflow task in an isolated environment."

> id: airflow-isolated-environments

Reviewer 2: Because this is a new page with a new ID, i'm getting a 404 error when I go to the old `external-python-operator` page URL in the preview. You'll need to add a redirect to the redirect file, and this would probably [be a good line to add it below](https://github.com/astronomer/docs/blob/d711fbdc64f8307960227658984cfdf9237dd0c9/static/_redirects#L15). 

It should look something like:
```
/learn/external-python-operator /learn/airflow-isolated-environments 301
```

- Your task requires **different versions of Python packages** which conflict with the package versions installed in your Airflow environment. To know which Python packages are pinned to which versions within Airflow, you can retrieve the full list of constraints for each Airflow version by going to:

    ```text
    https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/airflow/constraints-<AIRFLOW VERSION>/constraints-<PYTHON VERSION>.txt
    ```

:::tip Airflow Best Practice

Make sure to pin all package versions, both in your core Airflow environment (`requirements.txt`) and in your isolated environments. This helps you avoid unexpected behavior due to package updates that might create version conflicts.

:::

### Limitations

When creating isolated environments in Airflow, you might not be able to use common Airflow features or connect to your Airflow environment in the same way you would in a regular Airflow task.  

Common limitations include:

> - You [cannot pass all Airflow context variables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/latest/howto/operator/python.html#id1) to a virtual decorator, since Airflow does not support serializing `var`, `ti`, and `task_instance` objects. See, [Use Airflow context variables in isolated environments](#use-airflow-context-variables-in-isolated-environments).
> - You do not have access to your [secrets backend](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/secrets/secrets-backend/index.html) from within the isolated environment. To access your secrets, consider passing them in through [Jinja templating](templating.md). See, [Use Airflow variables in isolated environments](#use-airflow-variables-in-isolated-environments).
> - Installing Airflow itself, or Airflow provider packages in the environment provided to the `@task.external_python` decorator or the ExternalPythonOperator, can lead to unexpected behavior. If you need to use Airflow or an Airflow providers module inside your virtual environment, Astronomer recommends using the `@task.virtualenv` decorator or the PythonVirtualenvOperator instead. See, [Use Airflow packages in isolated environments](#use-airflow-packages-in-isolated-environments).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You [cannot pass all Airflow context variables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/latest/howto/operator/python.html#id1) to a virtual decorator, since Airflow does not support serializing `var`, `ti`, and `task_instance` objects. See [Use Airflow context variables in isolated environments](#use-airflow-context-variables-in-isolated-environments).
- You do not have access to your [secrets backend](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/security/secrets/secrets-backend/index.html) from within the isolated environment. To access your secrets, consider passing them in through [Jinja templating](templating.md). See [Use Airflow variables in isolated environments](#use-airflow-variables-in-isolated-environments).
- Installing Airflow itself, or Airflow provider packages in the environment provided to the `@task.external_python` decorator or the ExternalPythonOperator, can lead to unexpected behavior. If you need to use Airflow or an Airflow providers module inside your virtual environment, Astronomer recommends using the `@task.virtualenv` decorator or the PythonVirtualenvOperator instead. See [Use Airflow packages in isolated environments](#use-airflow-packages-in-isolated-environments).
```

## Choosing an isolated environment option

Airflow provides several options for running tasks in isolated environments.

To run tasks in a dedicated Kubernetes Pod you can use:

- [`@task.kubernetes`](#kubernetes-pod-operator) decorator 
- [KubernetesPodOperator](#kubernetes-pod-operator) (KPO)

To run tasks in a Python virtual environment you can use:

- [`@task.external_python`](#external-python-operator) decorator / ExternalPythonOperator (EPO)
- [`@task.virtualenv`](#virtualenv-operator) decorator / PythonVirtualenvOperator (PVO)
- [`@task.branch_external_python`](#virtual-branching-operators) decorator / BranchExternalPythonOperator (BEPO)
- [`@task.branch_virtualenv`](#virtual-branching-operators) decorator / BranchPythonVirtualenvOperator (BPVO)

> The virtual environment decorators have operator equivalents with the same functionality. Astronomer recommends using decorators where possible because they simplify handling of [XCom](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The virtual environment decorators have operator equivalents with the same functionality. Astronomer recommends using decorators where possible because they simplify the handling of [XCom](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md).
```

![Graph of options for isolated environments in Airflow.](/img/guides/airflow-isolated-environments_isolated_env_options_graph.png)

> Which option you choose depends on your use case and the requirements of your task. The table below shows which operators are best for which use cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Which option you choose depends on your use case and the requirements of your task. The table below shows which operators are best for particular use cases.
```

| Use Case | [`@task.kubernetes`](#kubernetes-pod-operator) | [KPO](#kubernetes-pod-operator) | [EPO](#external-python-operator) | [PVO](#virtualenv-operator) | [BEPO](#virtual-branching-operators) | [BPVO](#virtual-branching-operators) |
|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|
| Run a Python task in a K8s Pod | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: | | | | |
| Run a Docker image without additional Python code in a K8s Pod | | :white_check_mark: | | | | |
| Run a Python task in an existing virtual environment | | | :white_check_mark: | | | |
| Run a Python task in a new virtual environment | | | | :white_check_mark: | | |
| Run branching code in an existing virtual environment | | | | | :white_check_mark: | |
| Run branching code in a new virtual environment | | | | | | :white_check_mark: |
| Reuse the same virtual environment for multiple tasks | | | :white_check_mark: | | :white_check_mark: | |

> | Install different packages for each run of a task | | | | :white_check_mark: (traditional operator) | | :white_check_mark: (traditional operator) |

Reviewer 2: I've got a couple of concerns about some of the new things going on in this table - with the header links and the white check marks. This [screen reader example](https://youtu.be/ACmYzyN0b3U?feature=shared) describes an HTML encoded table, but markdown exports everything that's described in the "accessible table" example except the caption. But the main takeaway is that a screen reader reads aloud, verbatim, the content encoded in the individual table headers and the table cells, so we try and make sure that the table cell only has the data that information that is actually required. 

If we had a symbol for a check mark that was an icon that could be read by a screen reader as "supported" or "yes" I would definitely be all for this format, but tables cause a lot of problems for anyone using keyboard navigation in general or with a screenreader.

Another consideration when choosing an operator is the infrastructure you have available. Operators that run tasks in Kubernetes pods allow you to have full control over the environment and resources used, but they require a Kubernetes cluster. Operators that run tasks in Python virtual environments are easier to set up, but do not provide the same level of control over the environment and resources used.

| Requirements | [`@task.kubernetes`](#kubernetes-pod-operator) | [KPO](#kubernetes-pod-operator) | [EPO](#external-python-operator) | [PVO](#virtualenv-operator) | [BEPO](#virtual-branching-operators) | [BPVO](#virtual-branching-operators) |
|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|
| A Kubernetes cluster | :white_check_mark:  |  :white_check_mark: | | | | | |
| A Docker image (with or without Python installed) | | :white_check_mark: | | | | |
| A Docker image (with Python installed) | :white_check_mark: | | | | | |
| A Python binary | | | :white_check_mark: | (:white_check_mark:)*  | :white_check_mark: | (:white_check_mark:)*  |

> *Only required if you need to use a different Python version than your Airflow environment.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Only required if you need to use a different Python version than your Airflow environment.
```

## External Python operator

The ExternalPython operator (`@task.external_python` decorator or ExternalPythonOperator) runs a Python function in an existing virtual Python environment, isolated from your Airflow environment. 

> To use the `@task.external_python` decorator or the ExternalPythonOperator you need to create a separate Python environment to reference. You can use any Python binary created by any means. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the `@task.external_python` decorator or the ExternalPythonOperator, you need to create a separate Python environment to reference. You can use any Python binary created by any means. 
```

> The easiest way to create a Python environment when using the Astro CLI is with the [Astronomer PYENV BuildKit](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-provider-venv). The BuildKit can be used by adding a comment on the first line of the Dockerfile as shown below. Adding this comment enables you to create virtual environments with the `PYENV` keyword.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The easiest way to create a Python environment when using the Astro CLI is with the [Astronomer PYENV BuildKit](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-provider-venv). The BuildKit can be used by adding a comment on the first line of the Dockerfile as shown in the following example. Adding this comment enables you to create virtual environments with the `PYENV` keyword.
```

> The ExternalPython operator (`@task.external_python` decorator or ExternalPythonOperator) runs a Python function in an existing virtual Python environment, isolated from your Airflow environment. 
> 
> To use the `@task.external_python` decorator or the ExternalPythonOperator, you need to create a separate Python environment to reference. You can use any Python binary created by any means. 
> 
> The easiest way to create a Python environment when using the Astro CLI is with the [Astronomer PYENV BuildKit](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-provider-venv). The BuildKit can be used by adding a comment on the first line of the Dockerfile as shown in the following example. Adding this comment enables you to create virtual environments with the `PYENV` keyword.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ExternalPython operator, `@task.external_python` decorator or ExternalPythonOperator, runs a Python function in an existing virtual Python environment, isolated from your Airflow environment. To use the `@task.external_python` decorator or the ExternalPythonOperator, you need to create a separate Python environment to reference. You can use any Python binary created by any means. 

The easiest way to create a Python environment when using the Astro CLI is with the [Astronomer PYENV BuildKit](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-provider-venv). The BuildKit can be used by adding a comment on the first line of the Dockerfile as shown in the following example. Adding this comment enables you to create virtual environments with the `PYENV` keyword.
```

```dockerfile
# syntax=quay.io/astronomer/airflow-extensions:v1

FROM quay.io/astronomer/astro-runtime:10.3.0-python-3.11

# create a virtual environment for the ExternalPythonOperator and @task.external_python decorator
# using Python 3.9 and install the packages from epo_requirements.txt
PYENV 3.9 epo_pyenv epo_requirements.txt
```

:::note

> To use the BuildKit the [Docker BuildKit Backend](https://docs.docker.com/build/buildkit/) needs to be enabled. This is the default as of Docker Desktop version 23.0 but might need to be enabled manually in older versions of Docker.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the BuildKit, the [Docker BuildKit Backend](https://docs.docker.com/build/buildkit/) needs to be enabled. This is the default as of Docker Desktop version 23.0, but might need to be enabled manually in older versions of Docker.
```

:::

> You can add any Python packages to the virtual environment by putting it into a separate requirements file, in our example using the name `epo_requirements.txt`. Make sure to pin all package versions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can add any Python packages to the virtual environment by putting them into a separate requirements file. In this example, by using the name `epo_requirements.txt`. Make sure to pin all package versions.
```

```text
pandas==1.4.4
```

:::warning

> Installing Airflow itself and Airflow provider packages in isolated environments can lead to unexpected behavior and is not recommended. If you need to use Airflow and Airflow providers module inside your virtual environment, Astronomer recommends to choose the `@task.virtualenv` decorator or the PythonVirtualenvOperator. See, [Use Airflow packages in isolated environments](#use-airflow-packages-in-isolated-environments).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Installing Airflow itself and Airflow provider packages in isolated environments can lead to unexpected behavior and is not recommended. If you need to use Airflow and Airflow providers module inside your virtual environment, Astronomer recommends to choose the `@task.virtualenv` decorator or the PythonVirtualenvOperator. See [Use Airflow packages in isolated environments](#use-airflow-packages-in-isolated-environments).
```

:::

> After restarting your Airflow environment you can use this Python binary by referencing the environment variable `ASTRO_PYENV_<my-pyenv-name>`. If you are using an alternative method to create you Python binary, you need to set the `python` parameter of the decorator/operator to the location of your Python binary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After restarting your Airflow environment, you can use this Python binary by referencing the environment variable `ASTRO_PYENV_<my-pyenv-name>`. If you choose an alternative method to create you Python binary, you need to set the `python` parameter of the decorator or operator to the location of your Python binary.
```

<Tabs
    defaultValue="taskflow"
    groupId="task.external_python-decorator-externalpythonoperator"
    values={[
        {label: '@task.external_python simple', value: 'taskflow'},
        {label: 'ExternalPythonOperator simple', value: 'traditional'},
        {label: '@task.external_python with XCom', value: 'taskflow-xcom'},
        {label: 'ExternalPythonOperator with XCom', value: 'traditional-xcom'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="taskflow">

To run any Python function in your virtual environment, use the `@task.external_python` decorator on it and set the `python` parameter to the location of your Python binary.

```python
# from airflow.decorators import task
# import os

@task.external_python(python=os.environ["ASTRO_PYENV_epo_pyenv"])
def my_isolated_task():
    import pandas as pd
    import sys
    print(f"The python version in the virtual env is: {sys.version}")
    print(f"The pandas version in the virtual env is: {pd.__version__}")
    # your code to run in the isolated environment
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="traditional">

> To run any Python function in your virtual environment, provide it to the `python_callable` parameter of the ExternalPythonOperator and set the `python` parameter to the location of your Python binary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To run any Python function in your virtual environment,  define the `python_callable` parameter of the ExternalPythonOperator with your Python function, and set the `python` parameter to the location of your Python binary.
```

<TabItem value="taskflow-xcom">

You can pass information into and out of the `@task.external_python` decorated task the same way as you would when interacting with a `@task` decorated task, see also [Introduction to the TaskFlow API and Airflow decorators](airflow-decorators.md).

<CodeBlock language="python">{external_python_decorator_dag}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="traditional-xcom">

You can pass information into the ExternalPythonOperator by using a [Jinja template](templating.md) retrieving [XCom](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md) values from the [Airflow context](airflow-context.md). To pass information out of the ExternalPythonOperator, return it from the `python_callable`.
Note that Jinja templates are rendered as strings unless you set `render_template_as_native_obj=True` in the DAG definition.

<CodeBlock language="python">{external_python_operator_dag}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

To get a list of all parameters of the `@task.external_python` decorator /  ExternalPythonOperator, see the [Astronomer Registry](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow/versions/latest/modules/ExternalPythonOperator).

## Virtualenv operator

> The Virtualenv operator (`@task.virtualenv` or PythonVirtualenvOperator) creates a new virtual environment each time the task runs. If you are only specifying different package versions, you do not need to create or specify a Python binary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Virtualenv operator (`@task.virtualenv` or PythonVirtualenvOperator) creates a new virtual environment each time the task runs. If you only specify different package versions, you do not need to create or specify a Python binary.
```

:::warning

> Installing Airflow itself and Airflow provider packages in isolated environments can lead to unexpected behavior and is generally not recommended. See, [Use Airflow packages in isolated environments](#use-airflow-packages-in-isolated-environments).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Installing Airflow itself and Airflow provider packages in isolated environments can lead to unexpected behavior and is generally not recommended. See [Use Airflow packages in isolated environments](#use-airflow-packages-in-isolated-environments).
```

:::

<Tabs
    defaultValue="taskflow"
    groupId="task.virtualenv-decorator-pythonvirtualenvoperator"
    values={[
        {label: '@task.virtualenv simple', value: 'taskflow'},
        {label: 'PythonVirtualenvOperator simple', value: 'traditional'},
        {label: '@task.virtualenv with XCom', value: 'taskflow-xcom'},
        {label: 'PythonVirtualenvOperator with XCom', value: 'traditional-xcom'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="taskflow">

> Add the pinned versions of the packages you need to the `requirements` parameter of the `@task.virtualenv` decorator. The decorator creates a new virtual environment at runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add the pinned versions of the packages to the `requirements` parameter of the `@task.virtualenv` decorator. The decorator creates a new virtual environment at runtime.
```

```python
# from airflow.decorators import task

@task.virtualenv(requirements=["pandas==1.5.1"])  # add your requirements to the list
def my_isolated_task(): 
    import pandas as pd
    print(f"The pandas version in the virtual env is: {pd.__version__}")"
    # your code to run in the isolated environment
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="traditional">

Add the pinned versions of the packages you need to the `requirements` parameter of the PythonVirtualenvOperator. The operator creates a new virtual environment at runtime.

```python
# from airflow.operators.python import PythonVirtualenvOperator

def my_isolated_function():
    import pandas as pd
    print(f"The pandas version in the virtual env is: {pd.__version__}")
    # your code to run in the isolated environment

my_isolated_task = PythonVirtualenvOperator(
    task_id="my_isolated_task",
    python_callable=my_isolated_function,
    requirements=[
        "pandas==1.5.1",
    ]  # add your requirements to the list
)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="taskflow-xcom">

> You can pass information into and out of the `@task.virtualenv` decorated task the same way as you would when interacting with a `@task` decorated task, see also [Introduction to the TaskFlow API and Airflow decorators](airflow-decorators.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can pass information into and out of the `@task.virtualenv` decorated task using the same process as you would when interacting with a `@task` decorated task. See [Introduction to the TaskFlow API and Airflow decorators](airflow-decorators.md) for more detailed information.
```

<CodeBlock language="python">{virtualenv_decorator_dag}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="traditional-xcom">

> You can pass information into the PythonVirtualenvOperator by using a [Jinja template](templating.md) retrieving [XCom](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md) values from the [Airflow context](airflow-context.md). To pass information out of the PythonVirtualenvOperator, return it from the `python_callable`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can pass information into the PythonVirtualenvOperator by using a [Jinja template](templating.md) to retrieve [XCom](airflow-passing-data-between-tasks.md) values from the [Airflow context](airflow-context.md). To pass information out of the PythonVirtualenvOperator, return it from the `python_callable`.
```

Note that Jinja templates are rendered as strings unless you set `render_template_as_native_obj=True` in the DAG definition.

<CodeBlock language="python">{python_virtualenv_operator_dag}</CodeBlock>

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

> Since the `requirements` parameter of the PythonVirtualenvOperator is [templatable](templating.md), you can use [Jinja templating](templating.md) to pass information at runtime, for example to install a different version of pandas for each run of the task.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the `requirements` parameter of the PythonVirtualenvOperator is [templatable](templating.md), you can use [Jinja templating](templating.md) to pass information at runtime. For example, you can use a Jinja template to install a different version of pandas for each run of the task.
```

```python
# from airflow.decorators import task
# from airflow.models.baseoperator import chain
# from airflow.operators.python import PythonVirtualenvOperator

@task
def get_pandas_version():
    pandas_version = "1.5.1"  # retrieve the pandas version according to your logic
    return pandas_version

my_isolated_task = PythonVirtualenvOperator(
    task_id="my_isolated_task",
    python_callable=my_isolated_function,
    requirements=[
        "pandas=={{ ti.xcom_pull(task_ids='get_pandas_version') }}",
    ],
)

chain(get_pandas_version(), my_isolated_task)
```

> If your task requires a different Python version than your Airflow environment, you need to install that Python version in your Airflow environment so the Virtualenv task can use it. You can use the [Astronomer PYENV BuildKit](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-provider-venv) to install a different Python version in your Dockerfile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your task requires a different Python version than your Airflow environment, you need to install the Python version your task requires in your Airflow environment so the Virtualenv task can use it. Use the [Astronomer PYENV BuildKit](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-provider-venv) to install a different Python version in your Dockerfile.
```

```dockerfile
# syntax=quay.io/astronomer/airflow-extensions:v1

FROM quay.io/astronomer/astro-runtime:10.3.0-python-3.11

PYENV 3.10 pyenv_3_10
```

:::note

> To use the BuildKit the [Docker BuildKit Backend](https://docs.docker.com/build/buildkit/) needs to be enabled. This is the default as of Docker Desktop version 23.0 but might need to be enabled manually in older versions of Docker.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the BuildKit, the [Docker BuildKit Backend](https://docs.docker.com/build/buildkit/) needs to be enabled. This is the default starting in Docker Desktop version 23.0, but might need to be enabled manually in older versions of Docker.
```

        {label: 'PythonVirtualenvOperator', value: 'traditional'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="taskflow">

```python
# from airflow.decorators import task

@task.virtualenv(
    requirements=["pandas==1.5.1"], 
    python_version="3.10",  # specify the Python version
)
def my_isolated_task():
    import pandas as pd
    import sys
    print(f"The python version in the virtual env is: {sys.version}")
    print(f"The pandas version in the virtual env is: {pd.__version__}")
    # your code to run in the isolated environment
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="traditional">

```python
#from airflow.operators.python import PythonVirtualenvOperator

def my_isolated_function():
    import pandas as pd
    import sys
    print(f"The python version in the virtual env is: {sys.version}")
    print(f"The pandas version in the virtual env is: {pd.__version__}")
    # your code to run in the isolated environment

my_isolated_task = PythonVirtualenvOperator(
    task_id="my_isolated_task",
    python_callable=my_isolated_function,
    requirements=["pandas==1.5.1"],
    python_version="3.10",  # specify the Python version
)
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

:::tip

> To get a list of all parameters of the `@task.virtualenv` decorator / PythonVirtualenvOperator, see the [Astronomer Registry](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow/versions/latest/modules/pythonvirtualenvoperator).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get a list of all parameters of the `@task.virtualenv` decorator or PythonVirtualenvOperator, see the [Astronomer Registry](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow/versions/latest/modules/pythonvirtualenvoperator).
```

:::

## Kubernetes pod operator

> The Kubernetes operator (`@task.kubernetes` decorator or KubernetesPodOperator) runs an Airflow task in a dedicated Kubernetes pod. The `@task.kubernetes` decorator is used to run any custom Python code in a separate Kubernetes pod on a Docker image with Python installed, while the KubernetesPodOperator is used to run any existing Docker image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes operator, `@task.kubernetes` decorator or KubernetesPodOperator, runs an Airflow task in a dedicated Kubernetes pod. You can use the `@task.kubernetes` to run any custom Python code in a separate Kubernetes pod on a Docker image with Python installed, while the KubernetesPodOperator runs any existing Docker image.
```

> To use the `@task.kubernetes` decorator or the KubernetesPodOperator, you need provide a Docker image as well as have access to a Kubernetes cluster. The example below shows how to use the modules to run in a task in a separate Kubernetes pod inside the same namespace and Kubernetes cluster as your Airflow environment. For more information on how to use the KubernetesPodOperator, see [Use the KubernetesPodOperator](kubepod-operator.md) and [Run the KubernetesPodOperator on Astro](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/kubernetespodoperator).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the `@task.kubernetes` decorator or the KubernetesPodOperator, you need to provide a Docker image and have access to a Kubernetes cluster. The following example shows how to use the modules to run in a task in a separate Kubernetes pod in the same namespace and Kubernetes cluster as your Airflow environment. For more information on how to use the KubernetesPodOperator, see [Use the KubernetesPodOperator](kubepod-operator.md) and [Run the KubernetesPodOperator on Astro](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/kubernetespodoperator).
```

```python
# from airflow.decorators import task

@task.branch_virtualenv(requirements=["pandas==1.5.3"])
def my_isolated_task():
    import pandas as pd
    import random
    print(f"The pandas version in the virtual env is: {pd.__version__}")

    num = random.randint(0, 100)

    if num > 50:
        # return the task_id of the downstream task that should be executed
        return "downstream_task_a"
    else:
        return "downstream_task_b"
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="traditional-venv">

```python
# from airflow.operators.python import BranchPythonVirtualenvOperator

def my_isolated_function():
    import pandas as pd
    import random
    print(f"The pandas version in the virtual env is: {pd.__version__}")

    num = random.randint(0, 100)

    if num > 50:
        # return the task_id of the downstream task that should be executed
        return "downstream_task_a"  
    else:
        return "downstream_task_b"

my_isolated_task = BranchPythonVirtualenvOperator(
    task_id="my_isolated_task",
    python_callable=my_isolated_function,
    requirements=["pandas==1.5.1"],
)
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Use Airflow context variables in isolated environments

> Some variables from the [Airflow context](airflow-context.md) can be passed to isolated environments, for example the `logical_date` of the DAG run.
> Due to compatibility issues, other objects from the context such as `ti` cannot be passed to isolated environments. For more information, see the [Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/latest/howto/operator/python.html#id1).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some variables from the [Airflow context](airflow-context.md) can be passed to isolated environments, for example the `logical_date` of the DAG run. Due to compatibility issues, other objects from the context such as `ti` cannot be passed to isolated environments. For more information, see the [Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/latest/howto/operator/python.html#id1).
```
